dnn - 

cnn - input: input data -> convolutional layers -> pooling layers -> fully connected layers -> set of output classes
convolutional layers - apply different filters on image to gain spatial hierarchies of simple shapes as edges and lines. output: feature maps
pooling layers - input: feature maps, downsamples the feature maps, such as taking the maximum value or the average value of the elements in the area.
[spatial hierarchies - Spatial hierarchy refers to the way in which visual information is processed and represented in the human visual system, as well as in artificial neural networks like convolutional neural networks (CNNs). At the lowest level, visual information is represented in terms of simple features such as edges and corners. These features are then combined into increasingly complex representations of shapes and objects at higher levels of processing. In the context of CNNs, spatial hierarchy refers to the way in which convolutional filters are applied to input data, with early layers detecting simple features and later layers detecting more complex patterns built from those basic features. By learning these spatial hierarchies of features, CNNs are able to effectively process and classify complex visual information.]
fully connected layer - perform the final classification or regression step, mapping the extracted features to a set of output classes.

GAN - Discriminator and Generator. The "looser" updates its' model.
conditional-GAN - the generator might be constrained to produce graphs with a similar number of nodes and edges as the input graph, 
or to preserve certain properties of the input graph such as node degree or connectivity.
the architecture combines relational GAN and cGAN.
relational - i want bathroom attached to sleeping room
conditional - i want the sleeping room to have bed of 2m

advantages of House-Gan++ over regular house-gan:
* generating doors
* handling non rectangle room shapes
* component wise GT-conditioning - a computationally affordable non-iterative training process for the generator
* provides with the opportunity to further optimize the metrics by controlling when to pass which constraints

Neural approach (one-step generation):
1. DNN to train single step model generation 
2. CNN for adding objects to the scene
3. DNN for training scene graphs
4. RNN for training outgoing edges from nodes (turtle)

using functional graphs instead of adjacency graphs

The key difference is that our system produces a structured model (as opposed to a raster image) and the training process 
is non-sequential.

segmentation masks -  It is expected to remain unchanged during the generation process, as mentioned in the data block. 
The segmentation mask is used as a condition to guide the generator in generating realistic scenes with appropriate spatial layout and structure.

There are three key differences in our architecture:
1.  Edges in addition to nodes carry features for the generation of doors
2. Each node/edge takes a 2D segmentation mask as an additional input constraint with an associated new loss.
3. Conv-MPN is a network. feature pooling [32] is reformulated to allow feature-exchange between nodes and edges. [1]
Conv-MPN is applying convolution on points of components and apply them on component neighbors. 
examples of feature pooling: max pooling (picking max value in a range of pixels)
                             average pooling, etc..
convolution is the process of applying filters to pixels.
one hot vecotr [2] - a vector where each time only one bit is active an the others are inactive

[3] noise vector- The noise vector is used as an initial input for each node in the relational generator.
A converted condition image (with 3layer -CNN) is concatenated to that feature volume.
By incorporating random noise through the noise vector, 
the generative model can produce diverse and realistic scenes,
explore different options during the generation process,
with different configurations or layouts.




Summary - Architecture - Key Differences:
The networks' backbone is conv-MPN[1] which gets a relational graph of constraints (the bubble diagram).

Use of Conv-MPN which is a type of graph neural network that uses convolutional layers in a message passing framework between edges and nodes, 
allowing for feature extraction from the relational graph structure[bubble diagram]. Each node/edge takes a 2D
segmentation mask as an additional input constraint with an associated new loss.
For ex. edges also carry features for the generation of doors.
In House-GAN++ Conv-MPN feature pooling is reformulated to allow feature exchange between nodes and edges.

Edge features:
has 12-d one-hot[2] vector where the first 10 bits represent the room type and the other two represent the door type.
the generation of door by edge is the same as the generation of room by node except for the process of the pooling mechanism.

Mask-Condition:
The generator arguments:
House gan++ creates 8x8x16 feature volume constructed of the one-hot vector and random noise vector.[3]
to that feature volume we concatenate another volume which we will call the condition volume.
the condition volume is 64x64x2 of relational condition image, it has 2 channels, first is the segmentation channel, second specifies wether the segmentation mask was provided.
    The condition volume exists for each node/vertex.
    It is converted to 8x8x16 with 3-layer CNN.
Loss function: When the segmentation mask is specified, an L1-loss is enforced between the generated mask and the condition image.
to measure the difference or distance between predicted values and ground truth values


#Mask condition: Each node in House-GAN is initialized with a noise vector and a room type, 
#which is transformed into an 8x8x16 feature volume. 
#The relational generator takes in an additional 64x64x2 condition image for each node/edge.
#The first channel of the condition image provides the segmentation mask, 
#while the second channel indicates whether the segmentation mask is specified or not (1 for specified, 0 otherwise).
#A 3-layer CNN is used to convert the condition image to an 8x8x16 feature volume,
#which is then concatenated to the original feature.

Loss function: When the segmentation mask is specified, an L1-loss is enforced between the generated mask and the condition image. 
The loss function includes the original generator adversarial loss (Lorg) from House-GAN and the L1-loss term, with a weight (λ) of 1000.

Conv-MPN pooling: Conv-MPN (Convolutional Message Passing Networks) pooling is defined based on the connectivity of the relational graph. 
It involves exchanging features between neighboring components (rooms and doors) based on a CNN-based pooling mechanism.
Component-wise GT-conditional training: The training strategy in House-GAN is similar to "masking" in natural language processing (NLP). 
In each training step, a ground-truth layout is randomly picked, a relational graph is initialized based on its bubble-diagram, 
and a ground-truth segmentation mask is specified for training.